Cetuximab (Erbitux) is a human-mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody, which
competitively binds to the accessible extracellular domain of the epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR) to inhibit dimerisation and, subsequently, inhibit 
tumour growth and metastasis. In the EU and the US, cetuximab has been approved
for use with concomitant radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced squamous 
cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) and in combination with irinotecan
for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) in patients with
EGFR-expressing tumours who are refractory to irinotecan-based therapy. In the
US, cetuximab has also been approved as monotherapy in patients with recurrent or
metastatic SCCHN for whom platinum-based therapy has failed and in patients with 
mCRC who are intolerant of irinotecan-based regimens.In treatment-naive patients 
with locoregionally advanced SCCHN, cetuximab plus radiotherapy was more
effective than radiation therapy alone in prolonging locoregional disease
control. In addition, more limited noncomparative data from a large trial
indicated a 13% overall objective response rate (ORR) in platinum-refractory
patients with SCCHN. In patients with EGFR-expressing mCRC, cetuximab plus
irinotecan improved ORR more than cetuximab monotherapy in a trial in
irinotecan-refractory patients; however, there was no difference in overall
survival (OS) between cetuximab plus irinotecan and cetuximab monotherapy in
oxaliplatin-refractory recipients in another trial. In an ongoing trial,
progression-free survival (PFS) exceeded 50% after 12 weeks in
irinotecan-refractory patients receiving three different dosages of cetuximab
plus irinotecan. In another large trial, cetuximab monotherapy prolonged OS
compared with best supportive care (BSC) in heavily pretreated patients. Overall,
cetuximab treatment had an acceptable tolerability profile, with the majority of 
adverse events being mild or moderate in severity and clinically manageable. In
particular, cetuximab therapy did not exacerbate toxicities commonly associated
with chemo- or radiotherapeutic regimens. Albeit occurring with high incidence,
adverse cutaneous reactions appear to be a marker for response. Results of
ongoing head-to-head comparative trials comparing cetuximab with other biological
agents will help to establish definitively the role of cetuximab in the
management of SCCHN and mCRC. In the meantime, cetuximab, with its highly
targeted mechanism of action and synergistic activity with current treatment
modalities, is a valuable treatment option in patients with SCCHN and mCRC.