OBJECTIVE: Weekly paclitaxel has been shown to be an effective cytotoxic regimen 
for recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), and may act through inhibition of 
angiogenesis. Bevacizumab, a potent angiogenesis inhibitor, has also been shown
to have activity in patients with EOC. Therefore, we sought to determine if the
addition of bevacizumab to weekly paclitaxel led to an increased survival
compared to weekly paclitaxel alone.
METHODS: A single institutional review was conducted for patients with recurrent 
EOC treated with weekly paclitaxel (60-70mg/m(2)) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of a
28day cycle and those treated with weekly paclitaxel and bevacizumab (10-15mg/kg 
on day 1 and 15). Response rates (RR) were calculated, and progression-free
survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) were compared using Kaplan-Meier
survival analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients treated with weekly paclitaxel and 41 patients
treated with paclitaxel/bevacizumab were identified. The groups were similar in
demographics, initial optimal cytoreduction, stage, histology, grade, platinum
sensitivity, and median number of previous regimens (4 vs. 4, p=0.69).The overall
response rate (ORR) was 63% (complete response (CR) 34% and partial response (PR)
29%) for paclitaxel/bevacizumab and 48% (CR 17% and PR 31%) for weekly paclitaxel
(p=0.23). Improvement in PFS was seen in those treated with
paclitaxel/bevacizumab in comparison to weekly paclitaxel alone (median PFS 13.2 
vs. 6.2months, p<.01). There was a trend towards improved OS for
paclitaxel/bevacizumab (median OS 20.6 vs. 9.1months; p=0.12). Toxicities were
similar between the two regimens although more bowel perforations (2 vs. 0) were 
seen in the paclitaxel/bevacizumab group.
CONCLUSION: A significant increase in PFS with a trend towards improved OS was
demonstrated in this heavily pretreated population treated with
paclitaxel/bevacizumab as compared to weekly paclitaxel alone. This data should
be helpful in guiding future trials to determine the optimal care for women with 
recurrent EOC.